EASY to use custom Parachain for health care data storage - MSAI (#1141)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/msai.md

A combination of a Substrate blockchain, because of its modularity and Solid pod like api [5] would provide the security, decentralisation and immutable record keeping that is needed to make healthcare interoperable.
To make this feasible it needs to be split into stages initially using a smart contract developed in Ink! - WebAssembly which records ownership and access [1] to a data pod with a similar API to Solid PODs [4].

ID verification and data enhancement could be integrated through a Sidecar and or Pallet approach allowing other app developers within the ecosystem to reuse the chain without needing their own backend. 
For a simpler initial design we would enhance the off chain worker storage api[6]. Distributed data could be verified as authentic by having a secure hash stored on the chain [4].
With trust being established by the blockchain layer, any blockchain node that provides faulty data as verified through smart contract hashes will be kicked out and forfiet their staking in the parachains native token.
We also propose specific data format for anonymous tags such that no user identified private data would be exposed
during the whole process. 

> The initial user of this parachain would be our own EMR application where users store any medical documents with automated information extraction, along with authenticated GPDR opt out.

Author: electronic medical records

Sample screen of users view of how the data will be presented in our implementation can be seen[here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vR5uQkX9I_UdCQwDQpNUkyaIQKtYWfY0_ZhDLQHSxdeybF8QqbaYKNQ6j0obcg5BRhEjSmgI3NkhnhP/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000&slide=id.p1). 

Such a platform would allow game theory incentives and smart contract based marketplaces for data trading to encourage adoption of the reference application. 

Our team has years of research and development on medical data along with senior blockchain developers working with IT capable PhD accredited medical doctor(s). Data collection extraction and real time scaling is also part of Dr S Marvasti's and Dr Mahdi Ghandi's resume .
Furthermore, Dr Marvasti has multiple years experience working with blockchain technologies including ZKP both for cross border fintech and for data analysis through AWS Neptune and AWS Aurora API based databases.
This is a phased plan with part of the design to be implemented in this first phase, which each phase being usable .
in summary benefits of blockchain for this data includes

> * Decentralised: Data ownership is not lost to any central authority and access is controlled through secure  NFT like smart contract

Author: (note this section addressing general question of the ultimate benefits of blockchain not necessarily version 1)
 1- It can be via various mechanisms which dont require node based storage but simpler when the data is controlled by the nodes. 
2- with etheruem for isntance a proxy service could be created but with SUbstrate we would want the proxy service to be built into the node or as a side car. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_re-encryption or https://www.researchgate.net/publication/327034734_Blockchain-Based_Decentralized_Access_Control_for_IPFS#:~:text=The%20smart%20contract%20is%20used%20to%20maintain%20the,the%20access%20controlled%20IPFS%20is%20analyzed%20and%20discussed..  The smart contract will hold an access control list and the data will be hashed based on account hashes and only hashes which are allowed access will be served. If this was already possible then there would be no need for a separate chain that enforces this. The complexity of initial version will be limited. This is the ultimate intention

> * Incentive to participate: various mechanisms  could be developed as smart tokens or native token of the parachain linked to DOT.

Author: This is alluded to in the use of a parachain. Mainly to incentivise node provider to be reliable data providers. However for this first phase we will do with just redundancy (data being stored in more than one node off chain) as designing an effective proof of stake system for off chain data can be a larger than we can handle here . (For instance by matching the hash of the data against a smart contract that keeps a record of the hashes on the actual chain). As reference in the Nature article. So this would be V2 of that with built in support and much less development time needed for our App team and others.

> * Users:  publishers of health can receive some amount of token as rewards from any sponsor on the platform. 

Author: Health data outside our own application. As the idea is to have interoperability with ours being one reference application.
marvsai.com

> * Public: The api and parachain would be public so that any other apps such that deal with medical data can use this parachain. 

Author: Well the API is something that will be built based on the requirements specified in this document. So as part of this proposal we will hash down exactly the new API endpoints we will be adding to allow applications to store formated medical data on groups of nodes.

* The detailed API and openAPI specifications for GRPC and or REST will be documented as part of this proposal.
### Project Details

Data models

> We propose to store data encrypted at client side using the Pod api implemented as a simple database on top of the off chain worker local storage. The data would be anonymous at the storage layer and

Author: This will become clearer once we develop the prototype demo application against the modified Substrate node. So yes the substrate node will be extended to have DB like functionality for application usage (not just the DB that most blockchain nodes have for node management and chain management). But something like SQLite DB built in to the off chain worker storage.

encrypted with access to ID available only to owner(s) of the NFT controlled via a smart contract. 
This is made possible by our extension to the Off chain worker storage API such that each node that stores data checks if request is coming with a valid signature proving ownership of an account that has the NFT created by the account holder. The distributed smart contract will keep a record of data hashes and account owners as per the reference publication in Nature.
Later we could add functionality to decrypt data at the smart contract level once access to an HSM or secure key storage becomes native to the chain.  
Thus, in this first phase the data may be encrypted outside the blockchain through the Sidecar container service which we will specify and provide a reference implementation.
- The data 
  - Medical ID - consisting of HASH And JSON details which are encrypted and optional; only the secure hash of an ID reference is required. The decryption will be handled by dedicated service which will be open sources to run alongside the Substrate node. 
  - ID are verified by special validation addresses (See diagram) linked to special trusted organization addresses on the parachain

>   - ID verification is for users of data to require which authorities they accept. Initially it will be us or other organization we work with like the NHS in the UK.

Author: At this point not realistic but anything is possible in the future . This would be a proof of concept that will be used by our own inhouse app developed for private clinics!

- Solid pods could be considered as solving a similar problem though without a public append only ledger which reduces traceability and auditability of data access.

## Team :
Marvsai team www.marvsai.com
Our App is under construction.

### Team members
Core:
- Dr Salman Marvasti --  Experienced Finance and Blockchain Senior Developer currently at Blockchain.com
- Dr Atefeh Alihossieni - Internal Medicine Specialist - Medical App Design Baan Clinic- Millway medical practice
- Rahim Lalani CEO Text services and contract app development company in Pakistan

####  Advisory:
- Dr Mehdi Ghandi - Senior FPGA AI developer
- James Isilay - Cognism AI founder and CEO
- Dr Ali Marvasti -- Consultant Neurologist  and PhD candidate - NHS , Cambridge University 
- Dr Ali Marvasti's research with medical data made evident that even if an application is developed that could scan and store all the data there is no reliable standard to store it in a decentralised manner.
    The existing projects are not beneficial for real life situation.

### Contact

> - **Contact Name:**Salman Marvasti

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Contact Name:** Salman Marvasti
```

Author: done

- **Contact Email:** marvasti@marvsai.com
- **Website:** marvsai.com

### Legal Structure

- **Registered Address:** Marvsai Ltd Flat 903, 262 Poplar High Street E14 OBN 
- **Registered Legal Entity:** MarvsAI LTD Registered in England and Wales

### Team's experience
- Dr Salman Marvasti is a senior software developer with blockhchain since 2015
- Dr Atefeh Alihosieni is a medical physician with extensive experience with Patient systems at Baan Clinic and Millway Medical Practice London
- Dr Mehdi Ghandi is an AI production expert at Microsoft who is advising us on scaling our solutions
- Rahim Lalani runs and manages an App and Development outsourcing team in East Asia.
- Dr Ali Marvasti is an AI specialist PhD candidate at UCL and a practicing neurologist with Python coding skills . He is author of open source tools for seminology https://github.com/thenineteen/Semiology-Visualisation-Tool
- Dr Yasmin Nouri - ex World Bank director blockchain emerging tech
### Team Code Repos

- https://github.com/thenineteen/Semiology-Visualisation-Tool
- https://github.com/SalmanMarvasti/ResearchCode
- https://github.com/SalmanMarvasti/CryptonCapital

> - https://github.com/Luker501/SmartContractInteractions

Author: Ali Marvasti and Luke Riley. They are part time working as consultants.

Please also provide the GitHub accounts of all team members. If they contain no activity, references to projects hosted elsewhere or live are also fine.

- https://github.com/SalmanMarvasti/
- https://github.com/thenineteen/

### Team LinkedIn Profiles (if available)

- https://www.linkedin.com/in/marvastisalman/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/atefeh-alihoseini-a3850a202/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/mahdi-ghandi-3410114/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahim-lalani-9823691/

## Development Status :open_book:

### in this proposal
- Preliminary study of Substrate features completed
- NFT based contract developed for Solidity but tobe rewritten in Rust/INK
- Api for blockchain to be developed based on Solid
- A standard blockchain layer/ data storage layer and smart contract
### outside this proposal
- App UI design and development has been started

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:
### Preface
- Development of backend
Summary 

> - 1- Basic Blockchain parachain build using current available Pallets
>   -  API design specifications (OpenAPI) combined with Substrate features based on Solid Pod encryption api Linked with smart contract facility
>   - Integration of Identity validation mechanism : Use pallet-identity or other method of assigning identity signers that provide added value to NFT generated from users health data (As fake data has no value)
>   2- Configuration of Subtrate Off chain worker storage with the extra features needed for secure healthcare
>   - Documented encryption API
>   - Consensus based on hash of local storage to dedicated storage nodes (similar to SOlid Pod)
>   - NFT smart contract default template-- Template contract that will be deployed by default and interfaced with the Off chain worker
>   3- Testing on Kusama 
>   - Development of example scripts for interaction with new parachain based on docker files 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 1- Basic Blockchain parachain build using current available Pallets

  -  API design specifications (OpenAPI) combined with Substrate features based on Solid Pod encryption api Linked with smart contract facility
  - Integration of Identity validation mechanism: Use pallet-identity or other method of assigning identity signers that provide added value to NFT generated from users' health data (As fake data has no value)
 
2- Configuration of Substrate Off-chain worker storage with the extra features needed for secure healthcare
  
  - Documented encryption API
  - Consensus-based on hash of local storage to dedicated storage nodes (similar to Solid Pod)
  - NFT smart contract default template-- Template contract that will be deployed by default and interfaced with the Off-chain worker
  
3- Testing on Kusama 

  - Development of example scripts for interaction with new parachain based on docker files 
```

|    0c. | Testing Guide                          | Each epic describes testing opportunities.  [ 1. Create a health blockchain](https://trello.com/c/LZ3c4K3T/3-create-basic-parachain-with-useful-api) 2. Create openapi specifcations for reading and writing data to and from the NFT smart contract (Depends on blockchain nft tech used) .                                             |
|    0d. | Docker                                 | A dockerized setup of the parachain will be provided after several iterations when we have a working secure application against a customised subtrate blockchain with extended off chain worker local storage                                                                                                                            |
|    0e. | Article                                | Press release will be prepared a few weeks before the official rollout of the network. The link to the article will be sent when ready                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 

> |    1a. | Node Repo                              | Complete the deployment of the basic public chain with example  storage of a native DB format through the off chain worker local storage API.                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: Please specify what exactly you mean by "storage of a native DB format through the off chain worker local storage API".

Author: What this referred to is the original generic data format tables described int the ### Project Details in the document. However I have since updated this #nilstone. I will go through and try  to clarify all individual steps.  
Off chain worker api allows A single Node to store some data off chain... What we need here is data replication and data format/query capability for the type of the data described.

> |    2a. | Create New Substrate Pallet            | [ 1. Create demo application](https://trello.com/c/LZ3c4K3T/3-create-basic-parachain-with-useful-api) New parachain with smart contract facility through creation of a dedicated Pallet                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: This sounds like the [contracts pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/substrate/master/pallet_contracts/index.html) to me. Is there any difference to it?

Author: Sure it will reuse elements of that but the idea here is to LINK the contract with the off chain storage through a hashing mechanism as descibed both in document and in the references ## References:. I must admit as we are not Substrate experts details may change to satisfy the overall requirement.

Reviewer 2: You can integrate already a hash into any deployed smart contract. Not sure why you need to develop a new contract module for this.

Author: @Noc2 Updated application to clarify. You cannot communicate directly from offchain storage with a smart contract that is one chain. This is infrastructure to allow that to happen.

Author: Is this point clearer now @takahser I changed the title.
Yes Subtrate and polkadot has the elements. yes anyone wanting todo this can do it but at a significant development cost.
The proposal is based around adding easy to use API so that app developers in the healthcare system CAN use polkadot with much less effort. We ourselves as a startup will be the initial user of any blockchain that integrates this functionality.

> |    3a. | Extend with Storage Pod API            | Basic data storage API (with OpenAPI specifications) built on top of OFW adding some of the functionality of Solid pods                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: What's "OFW"? Off-Chain Worker?
What's "some of the functionality"? Specify further please.

Author: YEs, I expanded on that. Basically it is to provide data redundancy. When storing data off chain, what if one node is offline? Blockchain can handle that. so to make sure our app works we need a protocol to distribute a copy of the off chain data or a few nodes. Nodes are put into groups  and each group would have copies of the same data. Not everyone as then update will become too slow.

|    4b. | Add ID Validation to Pallet            | Integration of Identity validation mechanism :Built in method of assigning identity signers based on the described schema. THe schema is stored in a ink smart contract native to the Health substrate parachain. This built in smart contracts provides added value to NFT generated from users health data (As fake data has no value) |
|    5a. | Extend Off chain worker Data Pallet    | Implementation Off chain worker encryption and decryption module that can authorize decryption when verified by a smart contract                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|    5b. | Data Validation on store               | Validation check every data stored on node against a hash must have a corresonding entry in template smart contract. In this first instance data storage will be assumed to be trusted as long as parachain node operator is trusted and hashes match the blockchain smart contract                                                      |

> |    6a. | Example with new api                   | Document Off chain encryption decryption API and create                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: An example of what? A frontend? A CLI client? A reference iplementation? Please specify further.

Author: A CLI  and possibly a GUI app if time permites client using the addition API of the substrate nodes.
